3 million views 5 million views 9
million views about 1 year into starting
shorts I had finally figured out the
blueprint to consistently going viral
and today I'm going to be passing that
knowledge onto you this video won't be a
basic tutorial where I tell you to use a
certain Niche or hashtags all of that
stuff is you'll be learning the
exact formula that top creators use to
blow up all of their shorts so Focus up
take notes if you'd like and let's get
started
before we can talk about breaking the
algorithm we need to understand how it
works and also how it can be exploited
and first things first it's not random
and it has nothing to do with luck the
algorithm simply shows the best most
engaging content on the platform so as
long as you can make engaging shorts
with high retention then blowing up is
pretty much guaranteed and to prove that
statement let's go back to one when I
was just starting out on
shorts I had basically no idea what I
was doing and my shorts wouldn't even
break a 100 views but I kept improving
my content until I finally started
having success on the channel I believe
it took about 4 months for me to hit 10K
subscribers but here's where it gets
crazy on my next Channel after that I
hit 10K Subs in 3 weeks simply because I
was more experienced and knew how to
make better content cont so believe me
when I say the algorithm always
recognizes good shorts and pushes them
forward and you'll start seeing this
happen with your shorts if you do
everything I tell you
to everything else is completely useless
if you neglect this step an interesting
topic is the basis of every viral Shore
out there and without it you can never
hope to get many views so start with
this think of your intended audience the
people in your Niche what do they want
to see what type of videos are already
performing well in your space take some
time to consider these questions I also
suggest that you go research the big
channels in your Niche to see what vide
types worked well for them now I found
this Creator's Channel and I think it's
a perfect example of why those things
are so important if we look at his most
popular shorts you'll see that the
topics are aimed at a younger audience
mostly school kids therefore when he
starts making videos that don't appeal
to younger school kids you can see that
his views shoot way down but now if we
look at his most recent short he got a
lot more views than usual because he
again started targeting his core
audience so always consider who your
audience is and what they want to watch
now just by following that advice your
video ideas will be 10 times better than
they were before but there's still more
to it take a look at this short and try
try to see what's wrong with it Mr Beast
shared the key secret to his success on
YouTube and it's not what you'd expect
like all you need to do this this
applies to people who have not uploaded
videos but have dreams of being a
YouTuber is make a 100 videos and
improve something every time all right
the video continues for 20 more seconds
but we can pause it there so what went
wrong well the topic itself wasn't the
issue it was pretty attention grabbing
and the audience probably initially
stayed to watch but this short still
would have never performed well because
the Creator made a huge mistake that you
might be making as well for a minute
pretend you're the audience of this
short so the video idea was introduced
to us at the beginning how Mr Beast got
successful we got interested and decided
to watch to find out how but only 5
seconds later we immediately got what we
came for Mr Beast revealed how he got
successful so there was no more
anticipation and we ended up scrolling
away the terrible mistake this Creator
made was paying off the topic too
quickly ideally the secret should have
been revealed at the end that way the
audience had to keep watching in order
to find it out this shows us that the
delivery and execution of the topic are
equally as important as the actual idea
which takes me to my next
point this is a huge aspect to master if
you want to effortlessly make viral
content editing is how you present your
video the external things like cutting
pacing and captions structure is how you
compose your video with things like
storytelling and payoffs learn how to
combine good structure and good editing
and you'll be going viral with every
single post and to help you guys with
that there's a system that I use called
HPC which I'll break down for you guys
starting with h the hook the first 5
Seconds of your shorts also the most
important part of your content your hook
should introduce the topic of the video
while still leaving the viewer with a
lot of questions look at how this
Creator executed his hook on a short
with over 70 million views I want to be
the first person to have a snowball
fight in the desert all right let's
break that down so it was fast-paced and
attention grabbing no pauses quick music
with captions on the screen but it also
gave us a lot of questions how's he
going to have a snowball fight in thead
where is he going to get snow how did he
even get in a desert so we would have
continued watching to answer those
questions and that leads us to the
second letter of HPC progression but
there's a problem it's hot out here the
sand won't form balls and we don't have
any snow so Braden and I grabbed our
cooler and headed for the mountains it
was a long voyage and I often wondered
if it was going to be worth it right so
we're progressing along in the short and
notice how the Creator is meeting the
expectations he set in the intro he said
he was going to have a snowball fight in
the desert so now he's fulfilling that
promise and literally showing the
adventure to get snow this is something
you have to do in your shorts imagine if
he said okay now let's get some snow and
then he walks to his car and pulls out a
cooler filled with ice that would be
terrible right we'd be so disappointed
so make sure that the idea given in the
intro matches the actual content now the
final letter of HPC stands for climax
the climax is the moment that the topic
is fulfilled and the audience finally
gets what they came for which in this
case is a snowball fight in the desert
now there's only one thing that two men
can do with a cooler full of snow throw
it at each other and that wraps up
everything nicely that was overall a
very good short the use of editing
complimented the video Style the music
was fitting he threw some jokes in there
as well and the storytelling was very
effective even if your Niche is
completely different from this guy if
you apply his same tactics to your own
content you'll start seeing your shorts
get hundreds of thousands of views and
also never be afraid to imitate other
creators learning from successful
channels is a very important part of
improving your
shorts so at this point you should have
the knowledge to make a good short but
we're not done yet most people are
limiting their views without even
realizing it because they Overlook some
crucial details about the actual posting
of their content and I'm not talking
about hashtags or the title that's only
the tip of the iceberg on one of my
earlier shorts channels I was kind of
just experimenting with my uploads
seeing if there was an ideal post
frequency and time of day and what I
found was actually pretty interesting
first the day of the week didn't matter
at all I had shorts fail and succeed on
literally every day of the week but what
actually did matter was the time of
posting I noticed that my shorts posted
in the morning would get noticeably
higher views than any other time of day
but that doesn't mean you should post in
the morning let me show you something if
you go to the analytics tab in studio
press audience and scroll down a bit you
can see the times when your audience is
most active and if you look at my graph
the morning is when I get the most
traffic which means it's the best time
to post for me but for you it's probably
different so align your posting times to
when your audience is most active now I
also experimented with upload frequency
how often you should post but the
results I got weren't very
straightforward between two channels I
posted as little as twice per week and
as often as four times per day just to
see which was most effective so right
off the bat four times per day was too
much usually only half of them would
ever get picked up by the algorithm and
my overall quality of content dropped on
on the other end posting twice per week
worked better however it was kind of
boring and unproductive since I could
have been making more shorts in that
time now I found that once per day was a
sweet spot because I had enough time to
make highquality posts while still
posting enough to get consistent
exposure but if you find that once per
day is too much it's fine to tone it
down really the most important thing is
that you stay consistent and don't go
too long without uploading or else
you'll end up losing a a lot of momentum
so that's my proven advice to making
viral shorts if you want some more
advanced strategies specifically focused
on retention then click the link in the
description